                                                                      2007-06-05
		                        ____             
		                       / __ \            
		                      ( (__) )___   ____ 
		                       \__  /  _ \ / _  )
		                         / /| | | ( (/ / 
		                        /_/ |_| |_|\____)
		               Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Rob Rohan
		                      http://www.9ne.org

Thanks for playing with 9ne. If you have any questions or comments you can send 
me an email at robrohan@gmail.com. I'll try to answer as soon as I can.

0. WHAT IS 9NE
1. BUILDING
2. RUNNING
3. CODE LAYOUT
4. DOCUMENTATION

0. WHAT IS 9NE

9ne, pronounced "nine", is an online, dynamically extendable, color coding 
editor.

1. BUILDING

a) Compiling the Compressor

Since this is all javascript, building is kind of a loose term. What building 
means in 9ne is compressing the javascript. 9ne uses the included application
jsmin.c which you will have to compile yourself. It couldn't be eaiser, just do:

$gcc -o jsmin.exe jsmin.c

That command should produce an executable named "jsmin.exe". If you want to use
the build script without modification, it must be named "jsmin.exe". The gcc
compiler should be readily available on Macintosh and Linux systems. If you are
using Windows you'll probably have to use cygiwn. The build script requires a 
bash shell (Macintosh, Linux, and all other Unixy OSs should be fine).

b) Using the build script

To use the build script you'll need to have ant installed. If you use Macintosh
and you have the developer tools installed, just type "ant" from the shell. If
you use Eclipse as your IDE, right click on the build.xml file and choose "run".
If none of those apply to you, download and install ant from Apache 
(http://ant.apache.org/ ; requires Java as well).

When the build script runs, it will create a directory called "bin" and move
all the needed files into that directory.

2. RUNNING

To run it, copy the bin directory to a web server and hit the 9ne.php (or 
9ne.html) file. *IMPORTANT* you'll have to run it from a web server not from the
local hard disk. The reason for this is because 9ne dynamically loads bits of
code after startup, and some browsers security setting wont allow that to 
happen.

3. CODE LAYOUT

Here is the basic layout of what is where. The source tree and the bin tree are
the same (or they should be) after a compile (see the BUILDING section).

/src/
     9ne.html                    Main entry point file
     9ne.php                     Main entry point file
     bindings/                   Keybinding files
     code/                       The javascript source code
     docs/                       The runtime docs (tutorials, keys, etc)
     libs/                       3rd party libraries
     modes/                      Dynamically loaded mode support files
        css/
        xml/
        javascript/
        ...
     style/                      The CSS used to control 9ne
        themes/                  The CSS used to color 9ne - to skin it

4. DOCUMENTATION

The code uses NaturalDocs comments though out. If you'd like to generate the 
documentation you can download and install NaturalDocs, and then run the ant
task to generate documentation. It is also available on line at http://9ne.org.
